# mitm-rep
A demonstration of a Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack, showcasing how an attacker can intercept, monitor, and manipulate communication between two parties over a network. This project highlights common vulnerabilities in insecure communication protocols and emphasizes the importance of encryption and secure network practices.
For my self-learning activity, I selected MOOC courses that included a course named
*Cybersecurity Essentials* delivered by the Cisco Networking Academy. It was one of the best courses for me to learn about the basics of cybersecurity because the course was directly aligned to the subject I am learning in college, which is *Fundamentals of Cyber Security*. The course aimed at helping new learners gain knowledge and increase awareness regarding cybersecurity and related issues and career prospects.
I studied the course through a well-structured learning process. Interactive modules, video lectures, assessments in the form of quizzes, checkpoints, and tests after completing each chapter were offered to me through the online learning platform. Throughout the study period, I regularly attended lectures, made notes, and learned from the various tests conducted in network security, OS & endpoint security, cryptography, and incident response. My progress can be measured based on the marks attained during the assessments, where I secured 90.38%. I further gained knowledge from other sources as well. The screenshot attached below depicts my grades and progress in the course.
In addition to this, a number of skills have been developed during the process. Technically, knowledge about various aspects of cybersecurity including threats, measures against the same, types of encryptions, and risk analysis has been acquired. In addition to this, the ability to analyze problems and solve them is one of the skills that have been developed in the process. Communication and presentation skills have been developed through preparation of PPT on the subject matter and explanation of various concepts. Ethical approach towards work along with accountability and the commitment to learn are the professional skills that have been developed in the process.
This experience will play an important role in the future life. Regarding the placements, the subject knowledge has provided an excellent platform to become a security analyst or even an IT support personnel. The desire to pursue higher studies in cybersecurity has been generated through the MOOC. Concepts related to ethical hacking and digital forensics have attracted attention. Moreover, the confidence level has been boosted to get a certification in the subject.
